---
layout: post
title:  "Easier and more Secure Logins with the New SingPass Mobile App"
permalink: /media/media-releases/easier-and-more-secure-logins-with-the-new-singpass-mobile-app
date: 2018-10-22
---

**Easier and more secure logins with the new SingPass Mobile app**
**Users no longer need to enter passwords and carry physical tokens**

From today, all SingPass users can download the SingPass Mobile app from the Google Play or App Store. With the new app, users can now log in using their fingerprint, facial recognition (for selected smartphones) or a 6-digit passcode. They no longer need to enter their passwords when performing digital government transactions, such as checking CPF balances and applying for HDB flats. Also, with SingPass Mobile, users based overseas will now be able to use the app to transact digitally with the Singapore Government, without the need for a physical token.

SingPass Mobile will be an additional option for SingPass users to log in by 2-Factor Authentication (2FA). The existing modes of SMS One-Time Password (OTP) and OneKey token will continue to be available to SingPass users. 

Mr Kok Ping Soon, Chief Executive, GovTech, said, “Every month, we receive about 150,000 requests from SingPass users to reset their passwords. The new SingPass Mobile app will offer a more convenient login option, as users no longer need to enter their passwords to log in. SingPass Mobile is another step towards our vision for citizens to access government and private sector digital services securely with a single, trusted National Digital Identity.”

To activate the SingPass Mobile app, SingPass users will need to complete the following steps: 

1. Download “SingPass Mobile” from the official app store (Google Play or App Store).
Check that the app developer is “Government Technology Agency”.

2. Launch the app and complete a one-time set-up.
Verify their identity using an OTP sent via SMS, or generated by the OneKey token.

SingPass Mobile also comes with enhanced security features to protect the user’s personal data. For example, when the app detects any potential security breach or presence of malicious software on the mobile device, the user will not be allowed to use the app on the device. 

Users are reminded to only use their own fingerprint or facial image to register on their smartphone, and not to share their 6-digit passcode with other individuals. 

The app will be progressively updated with new features to make it a one-stop touch point for government digital services. Users can visit <www.SingPassMobile.sg> for more information.

**Annex B : SingPass Mobile Videos**
What is SingPass Mobile?
<div class="bp-youtube">
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/dDrqT64ydd0" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

---

**About Government Technology Agency**

The Government Technology Agency of Singapore (GovTech) is a statutory board formed in October 2016 after the restructuring of the Infocomm Development Authority. 

Following the formation of the Smart Nation and Digital Government Group in May 2017, GovTech is placed under the Prime Minister’s Office as the implementing agency of the Group. GovTech works with public agencies to develop and deliver secure digital services and applied technology to individuals and businesses in Singapore. GovTech builds key platforms and solutions needed to support Singapore as a Smart Nation. As a leading centre for information communications technology and related engineering such as the Internet of Things, Data Science and Application Development, GovTech also enhances the capabilities of the Singapore Government in these domains. 

**About Smart Nation**

Smart Nation is Singapore’s vision to be an economically competitive global city and a liveable home. It is a whole-of-nation movement to harness digital technologies to build a future Singapore, to improve living and build a closer community, empower citizens to achieve their aspirations through good jobs and opportunities, and encourage businesses to innovate and grow. For more information, please visit <www.smartnation.sg>.

### **For media clarification** ###
Medha Lim (Ms)
Senior Manager
Communications and Marketing Group, GovTech
DID: (65) 6211 1622
Email: <Medha_LIM@tech.gov.sg>

Jacklyn Chew (Ms)
Manager
Communications and Marketing Group, GovTech
DID: (65) 6211 0708
Email: <jacklyn_CHEW@tech.gov.sg>
