---
layout: leftnav-page-content
title: How We Hire
permalink: /careers/How-We-Hire/
breadcrumb: How We Hire
collection_name: careers
---

### **Right people, right attitudes, right impact**

We have but one goal; to build Singapore into a Smart Nation. Which is why we are always on the hunt for individuals who are filled with passion and grit. If you have that special spark that compels you to make a difference; **you** need to be a GovTechie.

### **Our hiring process**

**Apply**

Electronic applications are the way to go, saving paper and reducing our carbon footprint at the same time. 

Found a role and know that you possess the skills and personality for it? Go ahead and submit an online application. If you’re shortlisted, we’ll contact you to arrange an interview.

**Our Recruiters' Tips:**

1.	Use your cover letter to differentiate yourself
2.	Highlight your achievements
3.	Be clear and concise about previous roles and responsibilities.

**Interview**

**Phone Interview**

1.  One of our friendly recruiters will contact you for a quick assessment on suitability
2.  If deemed a right fit, you will be invited for a face-to-face interview
3.  To help us know you better, you will be required to fill in an interview questionnaire

**Face-to-face interview**

1.  You will be invited for a chat with a panel comprising of recruiters, hiring manager(s) or peers
2.  Depending on the role, you may be required to attend further interviews or complete technical assessments or case studies.

**Our Recruiters' Tips:**

1.  Do your homework! Knowledge about GovTech and understanding the job you are applying could give you the advantage
2.  Grab this opportunity to inquire deeper about the role or about us
3.  Use your interactions with us to ascertain if you are a good fit

**Decide**

We make a based on trusted frameworks and pre-determined criteria.

**Our Recruiters' Tips:**
1.  Clarify all doubts before signing
2.  Be ready to love what you do!

### **FAQ**

**Can I apply for multiple positions?**

Read the job descriptions thoroughly to better understand what we are looking for. If you have the necessary skillsets and knowledge, we welcome you to submit an application for the role. In short, yes! 

**How long will the entire interview process take?**

Depending on the requirements of the role, the selection process may take 1 to 3 months to conclude.

**I have attended the final interview, when can I expect to hear from GovTech?**

It’s as important a decision for us as it is for you. Please give us 2-4 weeks to make a decision.

**Do I need a degree to work in GovTech?**

Paper qualifications are not all that matters, we assess applicants in a holistic manner, taking into account previous achievements, acquired skills and knowledge, relevant experience, aptitude to learn and most importantly, the passion for public service. 

**What do you look for in a candidate?**

Qualities that reflect our values; agility, boldness and the willingness and ability to collaborate.
